plugins/plugin-template/README.md, before:

# Plugin Template

This template is designed to integrate easily with the main app in development.

A plugin consists of a React frontend and a Docker backend. It has a GitHub action that automatically runs `npm run build` and creates a release from the `dist` folder. 

The main production app has an option to download a plugin from GitHub in the plugin manager.

To get started with developing a plugin:

**Option 1:** Clone the main repository and make a folder/repository inside of the plugins folder. Push only that folder to GitHub. 

**Option 2:** If it is easier for you, copy all the contents of the `plugin-template` folder into a completely separate repository. All of the usage steps should still work.

### Usage

1. Follow the instructions in the [README](https://github.com/We-Gold/ouroboros/) to install the app in development mode.

2. Open a terminal and `cd` into your plugin's folder. Then run `npm install` to install your plugin's dependencies.

3. Start the main app in development mode: Run `npm run dev` in the main project folder. 

4. Start the plugin in development mode: Run `npm run dev` in your plugin's folder.

5. In the main app, go to the first menu dropdown and open the plugin manager. Click the plus, and paste the URL of your plugin (something like `http://localhost:5172`) in the development plugin option.

### `package.json`

The first lines of the package.json are important to identifying your plugin.

```
"name": "plugin-template",
"pluginName": "Plugin Template",
"icon": "./icon.svg",
"index": "./index.html",
"dockerfile": "./Dockerfile",
```

- `name` is considered to be the plugin `id`
- `pluginName` is the display name of the plugin
- `icon` is the **`dist`-relative** path to the icon for the plugin
- `index` is the **`dist`-relative** path to the index HTML file generated by the build
- `dockerfile` is an optional **`dist`-relative** path to a Dockerfile to run as the plugin backend.

### Plugin Development

A plugin page (React website) is hosted by the main app and lives in an iframe, in a completely separate context from the main app. 

If you want to avoid reinventing the wheel (in this case the common components of the main app), then feel free to copy them over to your app. They should work immediately. If not, you may need to copy one of the context providers from the main app and wrap it around your `App` component in a similar way to the `Root` component of the main app.

The default styles from the app are already available to you in the `styles.css` file.

_A possible future development is communication between the plugin and main app. For now, things like dragging files will not work since there is no communication with the iframe._

Some contexts and components that may be useful to you:

- OptionsPanel
- ProgressPanel
- ServerContext
- DragContext
- AlertContext
- VisualizePanel
- VisualizeSlicing in SlicesPage

Remember, these contexts are not available to you through the app's iframe, you must copy the code from the main app and use your own implementation.

Commit message:

Add details about the docker compose helper script.

plugins/plugin-template/README.md, after:

# Plugin Template

This template is designed to integrate easily with the main app in development.

A plugin consists of a React frontend and a Docker backend. It has a GitHub action that automatically runs `npm run build` and creates a release from the `dist` folder. 

The main production app has an option to download a plugin from GitHub in the plugin manager.

To get started with developing a plugin:

**Option 1:** Clone the main repository and make a folder/repository inside of the plugins folder. Push only that folder to GitHub. 

**Option 2:** If it is easier for you, copy all the contents of the `plugin-template` folder into a completely separate repository. All of the usage steps should still work.

### Usage

1. Follow the instructions in the [README](https://github.com/We-Gold/ouroboros/) to install the app in development mode.

2. Open a terminal and `cd` into your plugin's folder. Then run `npm install` to install your plugin's dependencies.

3. Start the main app in development mode: Run `npm run dev` in the main project folder. 

4. Start the plugin in development mode: Run `npm run dev` in your plugin's folder.

5. In the main app, go to the first menu dropdown and open the plugin manager. Click the plus, and paste the URL of your plugin (something like `http://localhost:5172`) in the development plugin option.

### `package.json`

The first lines of the package.json are important to identifying your plugin.

```
"name": "plugin-template",
"pluginName": "Plugin Template",
"icon": "./icon.svg",
"index": "./index.html",
"dockerfile": "./Dockerfile",
```

- `name` is considered to be the plugin `id`
- `pluginName` is the display name of the plugin
- `icon` is the **`dist`-relative** path to the icon for the plugin
- `index` is the **`dist`-relative** path to the index HTML file generated by the build
- `dockerfile` is an optional **`dist`-relative** path to a Dockerfile to run as the plugin backend.

### Plugin Development

A plugin page (React website) is hosted by the main app and lives in an `iframe`, in a completely separate context from the main app. 

Running `npm run dev` starts a development server for the React website and starts the included Docker container via Docker compose (see `backend` folder).

If you want to avoid reinventing the wheel (in this case the common components of the main app), then feel free to copy them over to your app. They should work immediately. If not, you may need to copy one of the context providers from the main app and wrap it around your `App` component in a similar way to the `Root` component of the main app.

The default styles from the app are already available to you in the `styles.css` file.

_A possible future development is communication between the plugin and main app. For now, things like dragging files will not work since there is no communication with the iframe._

Some contexts and components that may be useful to you:

- OptionsPanel
- ProgressPanel
- ServerContext
- DragContext
- AlertContext
- VisualizePanel
- VisualizeSlicing in SlicesPage

Remember, these contexts are not available to you through the app's iframe, you must copy the code from the main app and use your own implementation.
